# [Hello, Flask](#hello-flask)

## [Learning Goals](#learning-goals)

- Build a simple flask app to gain an understanding of how to use this
  framework
- Become familiar with Jinja, a templating language used with Flask

## [Background](#background)

[Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/), a
[microframework](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microframework) used for
web development, can be confusing when starting out. There are multiple
files of different types, and they must reside in specific folders. In
this problem, we’ll start with the absolute minimum—a single Python
file. From there we will move on to create your first full-fledged web
app!

## [Getting Started](#getting-started)

1.  Log into [cs50.dev](https://cs50.dev/) using your GitHub account.
2.  Click inside the terminal window and execute `cd`.
3.  Execute `wget https://cdn.cs50.net/2022/fall/labs/9/helloflask.zip`
    followed by Enter in order to download a zip called `helloflask.zip`
    in your codespace. Take care not to overlook the space between
    `wget` and the following URL, or any other character for that
    matter!
4.  Now execute `unzip helloflask.zip` to create a folder called
    `helloflask`.
5.  You no longer need the ZIP file, so you can execute
    `rm helloflask.zip` and respond with “y” followed by Enter at the
    prompt.

## [Implementation Details](#implementation-details)

The most simple Flask app uses just one file, `app.py`. This will create
an html page and say hello. Add the following into `app.py` to get
started.

``` py
from flask import Flask

app = Flask(__name__)


@app.route("/")
def index():
    return "Hello, World!"
```

This bit of code starts by importing `Flask` from the `flask` library.
Though we don’t need to get too far into the weeds here, `Flask` is what
programmers call a
“[class](https://cs50.harvard.edu/python/2022/notes/8/#classes)”.
Suffice to say for now, it’s like a template for the application we’ll
be building. The line `app = Flask(__name__)` tells Python to create a
particular app, henceforth called “app”, from the template. To create
the particular application, we give the `Flask` class the name of the
current Python file (represented by `__name__`), which allows our
application to find other files we might later add to it. In this case,
the name of the file is also “app” for consistency.

The most mysterious line in the application you’ve written is probably
the one where you wrote:

``` py
@app.route("/")
```

This kind of function is called a decorator. Decorators allow you to
take a basic function, like `app.route`, and extend its functionality
with something custom: the function you write after the decorator. You
can [read more](https://realpython.com/primer-on-python-decorators/)
about decorators if you want, or you can just keep using them for now.

This line tells Flask that if an HTTP request comes in for “/”, the
`index` function should be run. Note that, if we renamed the function to
be `homepage`, this line would tell Flask that—every time it receives an
HTTP request for “/”—it should run the `homepage` function.

Notice that the `index` function returns a piece of text, “Hello,
World!”. This text is what Flask will render to the user when their
request to the “/” route is complete. The returned text could be (and
often is!) the text of an entire HTML file, which the browser then
renders accordingly. But it’s just a piece of text for now, for
brevity’s sake.

To run your app, type `flask run` into the terminal, and you will get a
link to click, similar to when you run `http-server`. You’ve written a
Flask app! Try returning different text, like `<h1>Hello, World!</h1>`.
How does this change what you see?

### [Templates](#templates)

Instead of putting HTML code right into our Python programs, it’s best
to move our HTML into separate files, to keep separate concerns
separate. Since our app will likely include a number of similar HTML
files, we can create one `layout.html` file which all our HTML files
“extend”. “Extending” an HTML file means to keep all of the content of
that HTML file while also adding some custom content, specific to a
particular page.

By convention, Flask puts all HTML files inside of a `templates` folder.
Inside the `helloflask` folder, make a folder called `templates` using
`mkdir templates`. All your HTML files will go in this `templates`
folder.

Inside `templates`, create a `layout.html` file that looks like this:

``` html
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html lang="en">
    <head>
        <title>Hello, Flask</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Hello, Flask</h1>
        {% block body %}{% endblock %}
    </body>
</html>
```

The `{% block body %}{% endblock %}` syntax comes from
[Jinja](https://palletsprojects.com/p/jinja/), which is a “template
engine” for Python. The line with `{% block body %}{% endblock %}` is
what makes this a layout file. If another HTML file extends
`layout.html` and defines a block called “body”, we’ll insert that block
into this section of the `layout.html`. A layout file can contain as
many blocks as you want. Just give each one a different name.

Now create `index.html` so that it extends the template `layout.html`,
like this:

``` html
{% extends "layout.html" %}

{% block body %}
    <p>Next we'll put a form here and get some POST action!</p>
{% endblock %}
```

Finally, we’ll go back to `app.py` to see these changes come to life. In
the initial import, we’ll need a few more functions from Flask (as shown
below). Then, replace the direct return of text with a call to Flask’s
`render_template` function. The purpose of the `render_template`
function is to preprocess `index.html` such that, when we give it to the
browser, it also includes the HTML it “inherits” from `layout.html`.

``` py
from flask import Flask, render_template, request

app = Flask(__name__)


@app.route("/")
def index():
    return render_template("index.html")
```

When you run your application now (type `flask run`!), you’ll get a
little more out of your app. But it isn’t really interactive yet!

### [Forms](#forms)

HTML forms allow the user to enter data into input fields and send the
data to the server, often using the POST method of the HTTP protocol.
You can learn more about HTML Forms
[here](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_forms.asp).

Add a form to `index.html` so that it looks like this:

``` html
{% extends "layout.html" %}

{% block body %}
    <form action="/" method="post">
        What is your favorite color?
        <select name="color">
            <option value="red">Harvard Crimson</option>
            <option value="blue">Yale Blue</option>
        </select>
        <button type="submit">Submit</button>
    </form>
{% endblock %}
```

Note that each form element has both a *name* and a *value*. The name an
element is what we’ll use to refer to that element. Its value is the
value submitted by the form. Each get passed into `app.py` for our use
when the form is submitted.

Run your app, visit the `/` route, and submit the form. Oops! You should
see the message “Method not allowed”. So we’ll first need to make sure
Flask allows the use of the POST method on `/`.

### [POST](#post)

In `app.py`, we need to adjust our route to handle the POST request.
Here is what our new `app.py` looks like.

``` py
from flask import Flask, render_template, request

app = Flask(__name__)


@app.route("/", methods=["GET", "POST"])
def index():
    if request.method == "GET":
        return render_template("index.html")
    else:
        print("Form submitted!")
        color = request.form.get("color")
        return render_template("color.html", color=color)
```

This example has some logic in it: if the user submits a GET request,
we’ll show them the basic `index.html` with a form to submit. If,
though, they submit a POST request, we’ll do a few different things:

- `print` “Form submitted!” to the terminal, for debugging’s sake. We
  should later remove this once we’re satisfied our program works as
  intended.
- Store the *value* of the “color” input in a variable also called
  `color`, as via `color = request.form.get("color")`.
- Render a new HTML file, `color.html`, and pass the value of the
  `color` variable into the file under the very same name, `color`.

Let’s create `color.html` for our application to work:

``` html
{% extends "layout.html" %}

{% block body %}
    <p style="color: {{ color }}">Your favorite color is {{ color }}.</p>
{% endblock %}
```

Notice how we can insert the value of `color` anywhere in our HTML we’d
like—whether as text in a sentence, or as a placeholder for the value of
some CSS property.

We’ll likely want to add some additional input validation, however,
instead of simply trusting our users to send only the values “blue” or
“red” via POST. What additional code could you add to ensure the colors
we receive are valid colors?

## [How to Test Your Code](#how-to-test-your-code)

Your program should behave as per the examples above.

No `check50` for this one!

## [How to Submit](#how-to-submit)

No need to submit. This is a practice problem!

*Adapted from 27 Classrooms, by Mark Sobkowicz, Lincoln Sudbury Regional
High School*
